README.md, before:

# Meet Fae

## Installation

* add the gem to your Gemfile

		gem 'fae', :git => 'git@bitbucket.org:wearefine/fae.git’

* configure devise

		$ rails generate devise:install

## Maintainer notes

### Dummy App

There is a dummy app included in the Engine source. To get it running, follow these steps.

Cd to the dummy app:

```
$ cd spec/dummy
```

Create the DB if you haven't already and migrate:

```
$ rake db:create:all
$ rake db:migrate
$ rake db:test:prepare
```

Seed the DB if you haven't already:

```
$ rails console
> Fae::Engine.load_seed
```

Fire up the server:

```
$ rails s
```

### Helper Methods

All FAE helper methods add the ability to use simpler syntax for input class and wrapper class - respectively 'class' and 'wrapper_class'
```
fae_input f, :state, wrapper_class: 'special_wrapper', class: 'special_input'
fae_association f, :child, wrapper_class: 'unique_wrapper', class: 'unique_input'
```

The prefix and suffix helpers both have a required option of *prefix* and *suffix*
`fae_prefix f, :amount, prefix: '$'`
![Alt text](http://www.afinesite.com/fae/fae_prefix.jpg)

The radio and checkbox helper allows for an option to align it vertically or horizontally, the default is vertical. It also works for associations with an optional 'collection' option that takes an array, multi-dimentional array, or ActiveRecord#Relation object as a value.
`fae_radio f, :on_prod, type: 'stacked'`
![Alt text](http://www.afinesite.com/fae/fae_radio_stacked.png)

`fae_checkbox f, :on_prod, type: 'inline'`
![Alt text](http://www.afinesite.com/fae/fae_radio_inline.png)

`fae_radio f, :acclaims, collection: Acclaims.all`

The pulldown helper adds a dropdown with a search field on your associations or model attributes. It takes a *size* option that accepts 'short' or 'long', 'long' is the default. This helper by default works on associations and inputs, if you want to use it on inputs you must specify a 'collection' as a multi-dimentional array or an ActiveRecord#Relation object as a value.
`fae_pulldown f, :wine`
![Alt text](http://www.afinesite.com/fae/long_pulldown.png)
`fae_pulldown f, :wine, size: 'short'`
![Alt text](http://www.afinesite.com/fae/short_pulldown.png)
`fae_pulldown f, :price, collection: [['$1.00',1],['$2.00',2]]` or `fae_pulldown f, :price, collection [1,2]`

The multiselect helper takes an optional parameter of 'two_pane' which takes a Boolean. This method is restricted to ActiveRecord#Relation's.
`<%= fae_multiselect f, :acclaims, label_method: :publication %>`
![Alt text](http://www.afinesite.com/fae/multiselect_dropdown.png)
`<%= fae_multiselect f, :selling_points, two_pane: true %>`
![Alt text](http://www.afinesite.com/fae/multiselect_two_pane.png)

Commit message:

added fae_grouped_select helper and no-search option to fae_pulldown helper
cleaned up code in form_helper.rb

README.md, after:

# Meet Fae

## Installation

* add the gem to your Gemfile

		gem 'fae', :git => 'git@bitbucket.org:wearefine/fae.git’

* configure devise

		$ rails generate devise:install

## Maintainer notes

### Dummy App

There is a dummy app included in the Engine source. To get it running, follow these steps.

Cd to the dummy app:

```
$ cd spec/dummy
```

Create the DB if you haven't already and migrate:

```
$ rake db:create:all
$ rake db:migrate
$ rake db:test:prepare
```

Seed the DB if you haven't already:

```
$ rails console
> Fae::Engine.load_seed
```

Fire up the server:

```
$ rails s
```

### Helper Methods

All FAE helper methods add the ability to use simpler syntax for input class and wrapper class - respectively 'class' and 'wrapper_class'
```
fae_input f, :state, wrapper_class: 'special_wrapper', class: 'special_input'
fae_association f, :child, wrapper_class: 'unique_wrapper', class: 'unique_input'
```

The prefix and suffix helpers both have a required option of *prefix* and *suffix*, there is an optional *icon* option which takes a boolean and activates some preset icons if the prefix/suffix option is named correctly
`fae_prefix f, :amount, prefix: '$'`
![Alt text](http://www.afinesite.com/fae/fae_prefix.jpg)

`fae_suffix f, :start_date, suffix: 'calendar', icon: true`
![Alt text](http://www.afinesite.com/fae/fae_suffix.jpg)

The radio and checkbox helper allows for an option to align it vertically or horizontally, the default is vertical. It also works for associations with an optional 'collection' option that takes an array, multi-dimentional array, or ActiveRecord#Relation object as a value.
`fae_radio f, :on_prod, type: 'stacked'`
![Alt text](http://www.afinesite.com/fae/fae_radio_stacked.png)

`fae_checkbox f, :on_prod, type: 'inline'`
![Alt text](http://www.afinesite.com/fae/fae_radio_inline.png)

`fae_radio f, :acclaims, collection: Acclaims.all`

The pulldown helper adds a dropdown with a search field on your associations or model attributes. It takes a *size* option that accepts 'short' or 'long', 'long' is the default. This helper by default works on associations and inputs, if you want to use it on inputs you must specify a 'collection' as a multi-dimentional array or an ActiveRecord#Relation object as a value. The `search` option defaults to true, but is optional and takes a boolean.
`fae_pulldown f, :wine`
![Alt text](http://www.afinesite.com/fae/long_pulldown.png)
`fae_pulldown f, :wine, size: 'short'`
![Alt text](http://www.afinesite.com/fae/short_pulldown.png)
`fae_pulldown f, :price, collection: [['$1.00',1],['$2.00',2]]` or `fae_pulldown f, :price, collection [1,2]`

The multiselect helper takes an optional parameter of 'two_pane' which takes a Boolean. This method is restricted to ActiveRecord#Relation's.
`<%= fae_multiselect f, :acclaims, label_method: :publication %>`
![Alt text](http://www.afinesite.com/fae/multiselect_dropdown.png)
`<%= fae_multiselect f, :selling_points, two_pane: true %>`
![Alt text](http://www.afinesite.com/fae/multiselect_two_pane.png)

The grouped_select helper takes either a `collection` option or the `labels` and `groups` options. The `labels` and `groups` options must be contain arrays of equal length.
```
<% states = {'Califonia' => ['Los Angeles', 'San Francisco'], 'Oregon' => ['Portland', 'Boring', 'France']} %>
<%= fae_grouped_select f, :city, collection: states %>
```
or
```
<%= fae_grouped_select f, :city, labels: states.keys , groups: states.values %>
```
![Alt text](http://www.afinesite.com/fae/fae_grouped_select.png)
